---
layout: post
title:  "Why I'm Learning Code"
date:   2017-02-12 21:17:27 -0500
---


    Hello World! For my first post, I’m writing a statement of purpose. Even though it’s only week one of the course, it’s already clear that part of being a great developer is being able to dive deep in the minutiae of the craft. So while my future posts will certainly be more technical in nature, I’m starting my thousand mile journey with a single step of the big picture with the hope of establishing a foundational ideology to develop upon and hopefully to empower my fellow coders who for whatever reason are reading this post. 
Coding is power. Not that I think this is lost on you, reader of a code school blog, but it cannot be overstated that there is unprecedented power in being able to learn and create on a platform accessed by 3.2 billion people across the world(that’s half the population and growing).  As someone who was required to own a laptop for daily use at school since the age of 9, free access of any information I wanted meant spending countless hours downloading music, playing games, and getting lost through linked pages of Wikipedia, informing myself about whatever suited me. The significance of this privilege was largely lost on me until college, where I realized the internet as I knew and loved it is in danger. 
    Today, the foundational principles of the internet are being threatened by myriad interests - corporate, political, obscure. My eyes were opened by professor Allison Stanger in a course on the politics of the internet. In it, we began with a reading of the constitution in which we were came upon the unpleasant discovery that privacy is not a constitutional right as one might assume. Eventually we began reading the works of figures such as Lawrence Lessig and Tim Wu, the latter being the coiner of the term ‘net-neutrality’(simply that the transference of data not be impacted by payment). Turns out the internet itself, like our privacy, is a fleeting privilege now threatened by its own normalization in society. While it may make sense that corporations want to profit from engagement on the world’s largest information platform, a line is now being crossed that threatens the core tenet of the web: that it be accessible by all. During the Obama years we were lucky enough to have net-neutrality prevail, having broadband classified as a utility specifically. However, under our Trump-appointed FCC chairman Ajit Pai has already taken aggressive measures against that decision, and moving forward there will be a tough battle to fight to retain it. Learning to code means being able to contribute meaningfully to the forces helping to keep the internet free.
    Tomorrow the challenges will be more fierce. Recently machine-learning and artificial intelligence innovation have accelerated tremendously. On the one hand, knowing code means being able to contribute meaningfully to innovations that can have a massive positive impact on society. On the other, we’ll need to anticipate the fact that artificial superintelligence may not inherently be friendly towards its maker, so we’ll need to proceed with caution. Balancing productivity and human safety may mean having to make a choice that automates the jobs of thousands of people, putting them out of work. These coming innovations must be implemented by people who carefully consider their gravity.
    To me, learning code means participating in something that can have real impact on society. Right now we need people to be preserving and developing the web so that everyone can access information freely, so people don’t suffer from easily-preventable ignorance. We also need people to contribute to the innovations that will shape tomorrow, as their coming is inevitable, but what form they take still impactable. I’m learning code to contribute. 
